[WIP DO-NOT-MERGE] Prepare Serverless 2.0 content (#11227)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/deep-dive/03-dd-expose-function-serverless.md

---

> title: Expose a Function with an API Rule

Reviewer: APIRule or API Rule? You used APIRule in the Overview, that's why I ask.

Author: Ok, let's go with APIRule (as discussed)

type: Deep Dive
---

> This tutorial shows how you can expose your Function to access it outside the cluster, through an HTTP proxy. To expose it, use an APIRule custom resource (CR) managed by the in-house API Gateway Controller. This controller reacts to an instance of the APIRule CR and, based on its details, it creates an Istio Virtual Service and Oathkeeper Access Rules that specify your permissions for the exposed Function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial shows how you can expose your Function to access it outside the cluster through an HTTP proxy. To expose it, use an APIRule custom resource (CR) managed by the in-house API Gateway Controller. This controller reacts to an instance of the APIRule CR and, based on its details, it creates Istio Virtual Service and Oathkeeper Access Rules that specify your permissions for the exposed Function.
```

Author: Actually, that is ok as I mean separately `an Istio Virtual Service` and `Oathkeeper Access Rules`

>**NOTE:** To learn more about securing your Function, see the [tutorial](/components/api-gateway#tutorials-expose-and-secure-a-service-deploy-expose-and-secure-the-sample-resources).

> **TIP:** Read also about [Function’s specification](#details-function-s-specification) if you are interested in its signature, `event` and `context` objects, and custom HTTP responses the Function returns.

## Prerequisites

> This tutorial is based on an existing Function. To create one, follow the [Create a Function](#tutorials-create-a-function) tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial is based on the existing Function. To create one, follow the [Create a Function](#tutorials-create-a-function) tutorial.
```

Reviewer: Is it really a prerequisite?

Author: I believe so. I'm not sure if "the" is ok here. An existing but any ...

Follows these steps:

<div tabs name="steps" group="expose-function">
  <details>
  <summary label="cli">
  Kyma CLI
  </summary>

1. Export these variables:

      ```bash
      export DOMAIN={DOMAIN_NAME}
      export NAME={APIRULE_NAME}
      ```

2. Download the latest configuration of the Function from the cluster. This way you will update the local `config.yaml` file with Function's code.

  ```bash
  kyma sync function $NAME -n $NAMESPACE
  ```

3. Edit the local `config.yaml` file and add the **apiRules** schema for the Function at the end of the file:

  ```yaml
  apiRules:
      - name: {APIRULE_NAME}
        service:
          host: {APIRULE_NAME}.{DOMAIN_NAME}
        rules:
          - methods:
              - GET
              - POST
              - PUT
              - DELETE
            accessStrategies:
              - handler: noop
  ```

4. Apply the new configuration to the cluster:

  ```bash
  kyma apply function
  ```

5. Check if the Function's code was pushed to the cluster and reflects the local configuration:

  ```bash
  kubectl get apirules $NAME -n $NAMESPACE
  ```

> 6. Check that the API Rule was created successfully and has the status `OK`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Check that the APIRule was created successfully and has the status `OK`:
```

>     ```bash

Reviewer: Please fix the indentation: 

<img width="769" alt="Screen Shot 2021-05-21 at 14 13 17" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/35192450/119135472-bb6aa800-ba3e-11eb-8691-82c3c05e24b1.png">

> 

Reviewer: line 67: APIRule ?

Correct in other places in this document as well, if needed.

    </details>
    <details>
    <summary label="busola-ui">
    Busola UI
    </summary>

>**NOTE:** Busola is not installed by default. Follow the [instructions](https://github.com/kyma-project/busola/blob/main/README.md) to install it with npx.

> 1. Select a Namespace from the drop-down list in the top navigation panel. Make sure the Namespace includes the Function that you want to expose through an API Rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select a Namespace from the drop-down list in the top navigation panel. Make sure the Namespace includes the Function that you want to expose through an APIRule.
```
